---
layout: post
title: "Pre-GSoC experience @ Debian"
description: "My first GSoC experience."
comments: true
keywords: "Debian, Ruby, Shell"
---


Well this was my first experience of working with a huge project for GSoC 2021.
To be honest I was really late for making contributions to the project as I was waiting for the results of Outreachy but a huge thanks to the developer community of Debian for being very supportive throughout the process.

Also, to my surprise there were just a few student developers working on the project(just 3 at that time but they were the ones already involved with the community for long time...which I got to know later) and this saved me from being overwhelmed and I could carry out my work with ease. 

You can view my project proposal [here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gPS0DD3us0_5ecczn9-vZxP8ujcYpJGTsJPomL5X75k/edit?usp=sharing)

I am quite familiar with git and Github, HTML, C++ and this was the main reason for me choosing this project.
I was able to setup the project [Debian Continuous Integerations](https://salsa.debian.org/ci-team/debci) (debci)  within two days.

When I began contributing to the project, I got to know that most of the codes were written in Ruby and Shell. Well this was quite a learning curve for me, I got to fix some of the shellcheck errors and errors in the ruby files.

I attended the meeting for GSoC, got a chance to interact with the mentors and was able to clarify my doubts.
As of now the contribution and proposal submission period is over.

I'll keep you all updated about the status of my application.

[ UPDATE ] - I was not selected for GSOC 2021 but this was definitely a very fruitful experience for me. I encourage you all to participate and apply for GSoC next year. 

**"Be not afraid of greatness: some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them."**

Thank you!

Happy Coding ;-)